---
title: "Pengenalan Matlab"
teaching: 20
exercises: 0
questions:
- "Apa itu Matlab dan mengapa saya harus menggunakannya?"
objectives:
- "Menjelaskan tentang Software Matlab"
- "Menjelaskan bagaimana Matlab dapat membantu tugas-tugas anda"
- "Menjelaskan user-interface dari Matlab sehingga anda akan terbiasa dengannya"
keypoints:
- "Matlab adalah singkatan dari Matrix Laboratory."
- "Pengolahan data dalam Matlab dilakukan secara matriks."
- "Matlab dapat melakukan operasi - operasi matematis dan dapat memvisualisasikan hasilnya"
- "Matlab memiliki banyak toolbox - toolbox seperti Matematika, Statistika, Optimasi, Sistem Kontrol, Audio dan Image Processing, dll"
- "User-interface dari Matlab terdiri dari Command Window, Workspace dan Editor"
---

**MATLAB** adalah singkatan dari **MATrix LABoratory**. MATLAB mampu melakukan proses-proses matematika dan komputasi, menganalisa data, mengembangkan sebuah algoritma, melakukan simulasi dan pemodelan, serta dapat memvisualisasikan hasil-hasilnya.

Sebagai gambaran, fitur-fitur yang ditawarkan oleh MATLAB adalah sebagai berikut:

``+``, ``-``, ``.^``, ``( )``, ``:``, ``whos``, ``openvar``

The following are really the most basic "exercises" to get everyone started on doing simple maths on the command line. Nothing particularly exciting here, apart from the last couple of exercises that are a bit more maths-y (but not particularly Matlab-heavy).

In the command prompt, try to work out the following:

1.	3/2
2.	value of π (as in 3.1415.. the ratio of circumference to diameter of a circle; what do you think this could be called in Matlab?)
3.	two times π
4.	2 to the power of 8
5.	4 to the power of 3
6.	64 to the power of one third
7.	**(bonus)** the square root of 81 (not using the ``sqrt()`` function?!)
8.	**(bonus)** √-1 (not using the ``sqrt()`` function?!)
9.	**(bonus)** i^1,i^2,i^3,i^4, where i=√-1

And look at the following exercises briefly to make some vectors / list of numbers.

1.	Make a variable ``a`` containing the number ``10``
2.	Find out more about ``a`` with ``whos`` and ``openvar``
3.	Make a **column vector** ``b`` containing ``1 2 3``
4.	Now redefine ``b`` to be a **row vector** containing ``1 2 3``
5.	Look at how the colon (``:``) can be used to fill in numbers. Look at ``help colon``
6.	Compare the results of ``1:10``  and ``1:2:10`` and ``10:-1:1``
7.	Add the number 15 to the vector ``b``
8.  Create ``c=2:2:12`` and try to add the wrongly shaped ``[1 2]``  to ``c``. Note down the error message!
9.  Try joining the vectors ``a`` and ``b``. Now the vectors ``b`` and ``c``. Should this work?

##  Next

[Simple commands](02-simpleCommands.md) for getting the mean, std, etc.
